Hi Jonny

Thanks for the cheery letter.  We're all fine here.  We're still
lambing, so life is much as usual and of course we get plenty of
exercise (as always) doing farm chores.

I don't understand your comments about rotations.  You say there are
two different rotations::

  a. The observed spin of the surface of the body from a distance, eg
     a 27 day rotation for our sun.

  b. The combined rotation of all its atoms about their axis.

     
  Einstein's general relativity captures a. but not b., unless we apply
  your correction!" 

I never managed to make a *micro* theory of rotation as in b. with
contributions from the various bits of a body and I think that this
difficulty is one of the reasons for the fact that Mach's principle is
not widely accepted.  How do you see that GR captures this?

I suspect that the only contribution  that is easy to describe is from
a black  hole, which  you can  think of  as interacting  directly with
space (a sort of space clump).   My paradigm would work fine with this
restriction as  the effect from  heavy galactic centres  dominates all
other contributions.

Cheers, C

Short version
=============

Hi Colin,

That is good to hear you are busy with the lambing.

Thanks as always for the observations and questions::

    I never managed to make a *micro* theory of rotation as in b. with
    contributions from the various bits of a body and I think that
    this difficulty is one of the reasons for the fact that Mach's
    principle is not widely accepted.

    How do you see that GR captures this?

In terms of the *NP* I think I am mainly discussing *omega*, which
the book notes can be a general function.

In general relativity there is this idea of a tensor.  I think of that
as specifying the *rotation* of space time, at a point of space-time.

With this idea, how does this tensor vary through space?

One of my hypotheses is that the picture is extraordinarily smooth.  I
will argue that this is to be expected given the nature of gravity,
the age of the universe and the nature of the bodies that generate it.

Now I see any body of matter having two principle rotations, as
defined by a. and b.

The key thing is this idea of *nested rotations*.   The book mentions
*layered transparent layers*, that idea might be helpful here.

The higher the angular velocity, the smaller the amplitude of the
signal, and the higher the frequency.

Rotations of atoms, a very high frequency, low amplitude signal.

I imaging these rotations as tiny, invisible, twisting rails along
which atoms run.  If an atom follows the twist then it just
re-enforces it.

If, for some reason, it is unable to follow the rails then it will
emit some electromagnetic radiation, and lose some mass.

But we also have to think about what generates this field::

    I suspect that the only contribution that is easy to describe is
    from a black hole, which you can think of as interacting directly
    with space (a sort of space clump).  My paradigm would work fine
    with this restriction as the effect from heavy galactic centres
    dominates all other contributions.

Absolutely, we are agreed that the heavy galactic centres dominate all
contributions to inertial fields.

90-99% of the matter is in the central black holes.

As to the contribution from a black hole being easy to describe, I
think the full story has a lot of mysteries.   Many of these are less
mysterious with the perspective of the NP.

There are lots of circular bits in this story, and some of the circles
are quite long.

Everything in your paradigm works just fine here, and indeed is the
basis of it all.

I am really just trying to think what the *omega*, the angular
velocity, in your paradigm.

Considering the different components of *omega* for a large body such
as a planet or a star.

All the way down to the building blocks of matter, such as protons and
neutrons.

Thermalisation.  Galactic balance.

Rhythm too.

So I will have a go at an outline here.

We are agreed that as far as inertial fields are concerned, it is the
giant galactic centres that primarily define that field.

Further, distant matter dominates the contribution.

Now at this point we have this seeming random contribution of
rotations, surely the net effect is zero?

But the rotations vary smoothly, almost everywhere, so the add up
rather than cancel out.  Modulo the rhythm that we see as energy.

The *Cosmic Microwave Background* has a thermal black body spectrum at
a temperature of 2.72548±0.00057 K

So take this as the temperature of a typical point in interstellar
space.

Then there is enough matter and energy in that space to maintain a steady buzz of
microwave radiation.

What we see as energy is the extent to which matter in that space
deviates from the central rotation.

The microwave radiation is thermalised radiation from the combined
effect of all the giant masses.

Need to think about in what sense is this is true::

   The beauty of the whole thing is that much of the fine structure of
   the distant galaxies that contribute most to the inertial field
   comes through broadly the same.


Thermal energy.


Johnny

Space time is all about rotation.

Rotating matter defines spacetime.

Most of this matter lies at the heart of galaxies, so we just have to
model these, in particular the rotations it induces in the surrounding
space time.

The black holes might be easy to model in the sense that they turn
everything inside out.  At the event horizon time slowed to a crawl.

One puzzle is why are the fundamental particles the masses that they are?

I think for now it is simpler to accept that they are everywhere and
later worry about how things got this way.



Micro theory of rotation
========================

I thought I would start with the University of Warwick crest, and the
motto too.

.. image:: warwick.png

*Mens agitat molem*, Mind moves matter.

When I think about the spin of an atom I have a picture like the black
quadrants in the university crest.

I think these are meant to represent lithium, with three electrons
orbitting a nucleus of seven.  Of the seven, three protons and four
neutrons to keep everyone happy.

From the orbitting electrons, it is easy to picture a general
rotation of a body is composed of components in three orthogonal
directions, as shown by the orbitting electrons.

Now as far as I am concerned, the electrons are not the only
rotation here, no more than the rotation of the moon around the earth
is the only rotation pertaining to the earth system.

Now inside all this their quarks and quirks and goodness knows what
and it is surely turtles all the way down.  But that is not a story
for just now.

The mass of a particle has an equivalent energy.  With this in mind, I
think of any particle as just a photon of the relevent energy that has
found itself spinning in circles.

It's more complicated than that, circles inside circles and who knows
what, but from the outside, we just see the sum of the parts, and that
sum is dominated by the central mass.

Now the ones we see most are the beautifully designed proton, electron
and neutron combinations we know as elements, further combined as
compounds. 

::

   I suspect that the only contribution that is easy to describe is
   from a black hole, which you can think of as interacting directly
   with space (a sort of space clump).

   My paradigm would work fine with this restriction as the effect
   from heavy galactic centres dominates all other contributions.

   I never managed to make a *micro* theory of rotation as in b. with
   contributions from the various bits of a body and

   I think that this difficulty is one of the reasons for the fact
   that Mach's principle is not widely accepted.

   How do you see that GR captures this?


We are agreed that as far as inertial fields are concerned, it is the
giant galactic centres that define that field.

Further, distant matter dominates the contribution.

The *Cosmic Microwave Background* has a thermal black body spectrum at
a temperature of 2.72548±0.00057 K

So take this as the temperature of a typical point in interstellar
space.  And assume this means the contribution is enough to drive
atomic rotation as per matter at 2.72K.

The microwave radiation is thermalised radiation from the combined
effect of all the giant masses.

This radiation is absorbed and emitted by interstellar dust, including
water.

Now imagine a single.

notes
=====

Signals from LIGO detectors.

There is a low frequency wobble in the LIGO data.

This data is just a stream of delta's between two arms of a LIGO
device.

There is a sort of smooth varying wobble all the time.

This is why it is difficult to detect low frequency events, events
which generate waves at the same frequency as the background wobble.

This oscillation is actually showing mixing of distance and time.




When I think about tensors and the whole framework of general
relativity.

Re: b. At any instant time the intertial effect of any atom is
equivalent to some rotation about the centre of mass of the body
containing the atom.  

