======================================
 Kaluza-Klein and the fifth dimension
======================================

Roger Penrose, *Fashion, Faith and Fantasy* in Physics.

Someone special bought me this book a little while ago.

And it has been waiting for discovery for a while.

I think it was the *The Emperor's new mind*  and hoping for answers but
coming away with confusion and mystery.

It is a struggle to explain why what is fundamentally simple, is so
completely intangible.

I think I had avoided reading the book.   Physics and maths without
the details is both difficult to convey, as I know well.

But a few days I opened it up.  The timing is good.

I began with the end, the appendix and spherical harmony.

And by the end of that was more than a little curious about imaginary,
unit circles.  Additions and multiplication, wave propogation.

Then skimmed the contents, chapters one, two and three, fashion, faith
and fantasy, in that order.

Chapter two is quantum phenomena.  The imaginary appendix to general
relativity.

Often there is a lot of work to do to explain why something in
mathematics is interesting.  And sometimes that work throws some
insight along the way that proves to be essential to the
deeper understanding.  Accounts which shy away from mathematical
details struggle to convey such insights.

And then those somethings where examples are abundant, but the fear is
that there may be a counter example.  Like the zeroes of Dr Riemann.


Kaluza-Klein
============

*Fashion*, chapter 1, peaked for me with the Kaluza-Klein theory.

This was an Everest sized peak. 

It began with Kaluza.

I will try to summarise here, but best to go and read the *Wikipedia*
page. [1]

A five dimensional space.

* three of space, as we know

* one of time

* and a fifth, we barely know is there.

Cylinder condition
------------------
  
The metric does not involve the fifth dimension.

This means, when measuring distances between events you do not need to
know about the fifth dimension.

I guess, unless you care about such precision, and then, well we have
more serious problems, or opportunities.

What Kaluza does is just takes Einstein's 4x4 matrix and adds an extra
row and column, all zeroes, except for the diagonal.

It is not hard to see how general relativity is just a 4-D subspace of
all this.

A separate subspace yields the Maxwell equations.

And as well as this, it maps very naturally to de Sitter Space.

Watch out for `blume.dss`  a module that shows the arrival of a a wave
from a distant galaxy.


Klein's quantum interpretation:
-------------------------------

From wikipedia::

    In 1926, Oskar Klein gave Kaluza's classical five-dimensional theory a
    quantum interpretation, ... to accord with the then-recent
    discoveries of Heisenberg and Schrödinger.

    Klein introduced the hypothesis that the fifth dimension was
    curled up and microscopic, to explain the cylinder
    condition. Klein suggested that the geometry of the extra fifth
    dimension could take the form of a circle, with the radius of
    10−30 cm.

    Klein also made a contribution to the classical theory by
    providing a properly normalized 5D metric.


What does this mean?

Space is vibrating with an extremely high frequency.  All matter moves
with this vibration, so it is actually really hard to see at all.

If you take a two dimensional slice, I would expect to see something
like a very smooth pond with two waves, orthogonal to each other
forming a fine pattern of peaks and troughs.

We are generally, only concerned with a single dimension, that in
which we are travelling, relative to the spacetime, and so we just
need to know our phase in this oscillation.

What we see are differences to the base signal that comes from the
distant matter.

All contributions are along a particular line, or geodesic, from some
distant source.

Much of the time, only one dimension is needed for phase, at least
locally.  This corresponds to the comment above: for most (any?)
observation, there is a given line of sight.   This line mostly
changes slowly.
    

What about a photon?
====================

These propogate at the same speed of the wave, so you might expect to
generate a wake for and aft, as the surrounding space accomodates your
haste.

Now the photon is generally unbothered by it's wake, but paths within
a wavelength get to mess with space time.

Sum the rotations as you follow your path.


Fermions and Barions
====================

After some reading there is a suggestion that the reason the whole
string theory situation arose was to generalise this theory, when it
became apparent that the Kaluza-Klein theory could not quite do
fermions and barions.

I suspect this is a case where we need to take acount of oscillations
in all three dimensions.


Quantum phenomena
=================

The double slit.  So there is a wave and a particle.

With the model above, a photon is a ball that travels through space at
the speed of light, riding the gravitational wave.

It has a direction of travel and creates a wake around, it has to ride
that wake, and that's why see quantum phenomena.

The waves to the sides are modulated by the random background
modulations.


The fifth dimension
===================

      cos \theta + i sin \theta
 

It is where you are on the circle. It is imaginary.

It is all about the angle.

All rotating matter adds to this angle.

Defining the peaks and troughs of space time.

If you do not care about rotation, you can ignore this dimension.

But that would be a shame, as all the interesting stuff seems to
happen in this dimension.

For example electric charge is identified with motion in the fifth
dimension.


Another paradigm
================

Rotating masses affect the fifth dimension in ways not captured by
general relativity.

The fifth dimension is essentially a phase angle.  Any rotating mass
modulates this angle.

Hence, it is important to take this into account in any model of
reality. 
 
Fantasy
=======

Chapter 3, is fantasy physics, featuring the big bang.

I have yet to read this one.

What I enjoy about reading these books are the accounts of the
problems that gave rise to the mathematical models.

Observations that raise questions about current theories.   Or
consequences of models that seem out of step with reality.

The history of how ideas have evolved is always fascinating.

Update
------

I have now started reading chapter 3.

The fantasy is the inflationary phase.

The chapter has me thinking again about the harmonics of the Cosmic
Microwave Background.

And the Hubble constant too.

Fred Hoyle gets a mention for his static universe and continuous
creation.

I have also been back to the *New Paradigm*.


      

References
==========

[1] anpotu

[2] https://wikepedia.org/Kaluza–Klein_theory

[2] https://wikepedia.org/

[2] https://wikepedia.org/

[2] https://wikepedia.org/

[2] https://wikepedia.org/

