Hi Colin,

I really hope this email finds you well.

I had a busy winter teaching skiing, but with a lot of time to think.
The season came to an abrupt end.

I had been expecting this all season, it has been an unusually mild
winter here.  But sadly, it was not lack of snow that closed things
down.

Over winter, I have been re-reading Fred's book and the New Paradigm
too, particularly the arguments in chapter 2.

It took me a while to realise that all the arguments hinge on the
"Kerr metric being the unique solution assuming general relativity and
space is a vaccuum".

So the theory of gravitomagnetism is sound.  It is the mathematics
that has been used to model it that has the problem!

And the fix to the mathematics is just to change the assumption about
Ricci curvature.

Returning to Fred.  For much of the work in Fred's time Newton was a
good enough approximation.  The astronomers were having a field day
with the giant telescopes.  Before we knew it expansion and the big
bang were a done deal.

With all the thought about continuous creation I would have expected
he would pay more attention to relativity.

He didn't anticipate super-massive black holes as galactic recycling
centres.


The statement from the book::
  
  two rotations with the same angular velocity, differ only by a
  uniform linear motion

Together with the assumption that "linear motion has no inertial
effect"

Were both very helpful to me in thinking about what matters here.

Leading from that, I have attached a piece.  The core idea here is
that any body (planet, star, galaxy, black hole) has (at least) two
rotations that contribute to the fabric of space time:

a. The observed spin of the surface of the body from a distance, eg a
   27 day rotation for our sun.

b. The combined rotation of all its atoms about their axis.

Einstein's general relativity captures a. but not b., unless we apply
your correction!

Returning to Fred.  I like to separate the observations he makes from
the conclusions he draws from those observations.

The observations are very insightful, such as the implications of the
hydrogen/helium balance.  His mistake was assuming continuous
creation was the only solution.

I suspect he would have been delighted to hear about your gamma-ray
theories.

He never considered super-massive black holes as galactic centres.

I am enjoying how the mathematics constrains the possibilities,
arguments for why it is angular velocity, not angular momentum that
matters.

Zeeman's theorem that "causality implies the Lorentz group" pretty
much defines the metric for the universe and leads naturally to *de
Sitter space*.

I've attached some notes which relate to how I am thinking of
modelling binary stars.

It will likely take me a while to get everything I have been thinking
into code that I am happy with and that will be useful to help others
understand your ideas.

I will let you know when I have something worth taking a look at.  I
am realising this is probably a long term project.

Meanwhile, look after yourself and those close to you.

Thanks for helping find my way through this fascinating story.

All the best.

Johnny

April 1st
=========

Thanks for the cheery letter.  We're all fine here.  We're still
lambing, so life is much as usual and of course we get plenty of
exercise (as always) doing farm chores.

I don't understand your comments about rotations.  You say there are
two different rotations::


   a. The observed spin of the surface of the body from a distance, eg a
   27 day rotation for our sun.

   b. The combined rotation of all its atoms about their axis.

   Einstein's general relativity captures a. but not b., unless we
   apply your correction!



I never managed to make a "micro" theory of rotation as in b. with
contributions from the various bits of a body and I think that this
difficulty is one of the reasons for the fact that Mach's principle is
not widely accepted.  How do you see that GR captures this?

I suspect that the only contribution that is easy to describe is from
a black hole, which you can think of as interacting directly with
space (a sort of space clump).  My paradigm would work fine with this
restriction as the effect from heavy galactic centres dominates all
other contributions.

Cheers, C

