=========================
 Micro theory of gravity
=========================

I will begin with a letter::

    Hi Jonny

    Thanks for the cheery letter.  We're all fine here.  We're still
    lambing, so life is much as usual and of course we get plenty of
    exercise (as always) doing farm chores.

    I don't understand your comments about rotations.  You say there are
    two different rotations::

      a. The observed spin of the surface of the body from a distance, eg
         a 27 day rotation for our sun.

      b. The combined rotation of all its atoms about their axis.

         
      Einstein's general relativity captures a. but not b., unless we apply
      your correction!" 

    I never managed to make a *micro* theory of rotation as in b. with
    contributions from the various bits of a body and I think that this
    difficulty is one of the reasons for the fact that Mach's principle is
    not widely accepted.  How do you see that GR captures this?

    I suspect that the only contribution  that is easy to describe is from
    a black  hole, which  you can  think of  as interacting  directly with
    space (a sort of space clump).   My paradigm would work fine with this
    restriction as  the effect from  heavy galactic centres  dominates all
    other contributions.

    Cheers, C


This arrived on April 1st.

It is now ten days later and I am beginning to understand the
difficulty that Mach had in getting his principle accepted.

This subject touches every aspect of modern physics and cosmology.

How to progress without getting stuck in details?

I will start with the new paradigm and take that as a baseline model
for the universe.

There is a lot in the book, and it has taken me a while to understand
how things relate.

In chapter 2, you come to an impasse with general relativity and note
that there are two ways to proceed::

  1. Abandon general relativity and develop a radical new theory
  
  2. Modify general relativity

The new paradigm goes with option 2.

The modification is simple and relates to adding the inertial drag of a
rotating body to the general relativity model.

This is done by assuming that a body of mass *m*, rotating with
angular velocity *\omega* induces an inertial drag at distance *r* of
*m \omega / r*.

In addition to the warping of space time as prescribed by general
relativity.

The physics of the new paradigm is then able to model galactic
rotation curves.

This whole story is about rotation.

Rotating masses define space time.

Rotating mass typically has two components.  The sum of the rotations
of its atoms and the actual rotation of the mass, as experienced by an
observer in equilibrium on the surface of the body.

In the book you note that \omega can be a general function.

Here I suggest that it is approximated by two main components::

    \omega =~ \omega_a + \omega_b

where \omega_a is an oscillation with angular velocity of atoms and
\omega_b is the observed rotation for some observer, *b*.

These are characterised by their frequency or angular velocity, if you
prefer.  Not only that, but the magnitude of the effect is
proportional to the frequency of the oscillation.

I suggested that \omega_a is an extremely high frequency and hence is
a very good approximation to the full reality.  Further, that it gives
rise to general relativity, to a good approximation.

To get an idea of the frequency, use *E = m c^2 and planck's constant
to get an idea of the frequency if a proton is turned into a photon.

The idea is that space time is buzzing at this frequency.  A tiny
oscillation, high in frequency.  Thermal equilibrium in three
dimensions.

I am claimomg, without proof, that this buzz is what we see as
gravity, as formulated in general relativity.  I think you mention
Schiama showed that Newton's gravity falls out to a first
approximation.[1]

In short, if we relate this to the paradigm, we again see rotating
mass dragging space time, contributing to the oscillations that define
space time.

Rather than formulate it as oscillations, Einstein though in terms of
rotations and of space time twisting in on itself.  He was concerned
with how observers see objects moving.

All matter in the visible universe contributes to the oscillation at a
particular place and time.

A random combination of oscillations, one might expect to sum to zero
and have no net effect.  However, the claim is that these oscillations
are, at least locally, in sync to a remarkable degree.

Indeed to the extent that matter is not in sync, we see it emitting
electromagnetic radiation, losing angular momentum in the process,
until it reaches an equilibrium with incoming radiation.

It is also possible to see how things get complicated when two bodies
are in relative motion close to the speed of light.  Einstein's
special relativity allows us to adjust for this.

General relativity shows how matter, in fact, curves space time and
shows that when you get close to any mass things go a little strange.
Plate like rotation, at the speed of light.

The additional rotation of matter, as observed for a galaxy.  Is a low
frequency wave on top of the high frequency buzz of its central black
hole.  I believe it is these rotations that contribute to the
spherical harmonics that we see in the Cosmic Microwave Background.

There is a lot more I have been thinking about here, but so far it all
holds together, but it does very much require an ancient, Copernican
Principled universe.

It is necessary to address the Big Bang elephant in the room.  

Light.

I wish we could have a quick word with Fred, Max Planck and Einstein.

On continuous creation, I keep wondering what happens when gamma ray
bursts cross in the night.

An axiomatic approach to the universe.

Schiama principle.

Space-time metric.

Causality implies Lorentz.

Matter energy equivalence.

Conservation of momentum.

Temperature.

Johnny



