Just a follow-up to the email I just sent.

I think a problem I am running into is having to justify statements I
am making, realising all the issues that they raise and then
disappearing down some fascinating rabbit holes.

Almost everything I am writing about appears in some form in your
book, and if not there, was very much in the thoughts of the main
characters of this mystery.

Mach, Sciama, de Sitter, Planck, Einstein.  They all have a mental
model for the universe that they find a way to express as
mathematics.  I cannot help thinking that they had similar mental
pictures to what I am trying to describe.

Their thoughts were shaped by the experimental observations of the
time.  Anything that did not fit in with the current theory was of
interest and often lead to better models.

And at some point, mathematics very much constrains the possibilities,
and a model emerges that fits the observations to a remarkable degree.

Time passes, new observations, higher resolution, same picture.

Here is another go at building a mental model for space-time.

Let's start with the big bang.

The issue here is not whether there was a big bang or not.

The issue is a mis-understanding of many orders of magnitude over how long
ago such a big bang must have been!

One reason for this misunderstanding is a failure to look at the
universe through a relativistic lense and fully understand the
subtleties, as you noted with Fred. [Fred]

And subtleties that you explore in the new paradigm.

I feel this is a common theme in this story.

I will take it as a hypothesis that the universe is big enough and has
been around long enough for it to settle down to some sort of steady
state on a very large scale.

I think there is a lot of good evidence for this, in particular the
remarkable uniformity throughout the universe, something the big bang
attributes to periods of super rapid expansion.

Now imagine that all matter is following a very high frequency
vibration, at the typical period of rotation of baryons.  Further,
that each atom's rotation, or oscillation, adds to the inertial field,
by adding to the oscillation of the same frequency.

So a smooth, tiny, oscillation, propogating at the speed of light.

Imagine a sphere of matter moving through space.

To increase its velocity in a particular direction it has to increase
each atom's rotation about an axis perpendicular to the velocity.

Now the rotation is extremely fast to begin with and this change is
only really noticeable when relative velocity approaches the speed of
light.  Per Eistein, the mass increases significantly if it is moving
a portion of the speed of light.

What we experience as momentum is the sum of the angular momentums of
a body's atoms.

Now let's look close into the centre of a galaxy and imagine what it
is like.

Assuming a giant mass at the centre of a galaxy, of the order 10-100
billion solar masses.

Stay outside the Schwartzchild radius.   I imagine a giant, low
frequency wave.  As you move outwards, reach a point where the
amplitude of the gravitational wave from the centre is commensurate
with it's wavelength.

As you move out, there is a presumably a point where the energy is
sufficient to tear baryons apart.

A little further out I would expect the quarks to re-combine.

As we move out from the centre of a galaxy to its outer reaches.  I
think of the picture in Figure 2.2 of the book, showing coherent
inertial drag between two heavenly bodies.

The inner body being the galactic centre and the outer body the rest
of the universe.

The hypothesis is that the latter results in a very high frequency,
low amplitude wobble for baryons to enjoy.

The inner a very low frequency signal.  That increases in frequency,
and decreases in amplitude, until it matches the cosmic background.

With this model, it is not hard to see why the matter which emerges
from a galactic centre will necessarily be baryons.  They have to
conform with the local inertial frame.

That frame is defined by all the other large objects in the universe,
so it would appear the universe likes uniformity.

Which reminds me I need to write about thermal equilibrium.

Johnny

[Fred]

I'm still thinking about relativity and continuous creation.

I have read Fred's "Nature of the Universe" a few times now.

What happens when two gamma ray bursts cross in night?

It would be neat if two simultaneous new arrivals resulted in some new
baryons.

Would this mean the distinction between matter and energy is
relativistic?

Sciama Principle
================

A body of mass m, rotating with angular velocity \omega emits a wave
of length 1 / \omega to the surrounding space.

The law of Nested rotations
===========================

The rotation of a body: it is fractals all the way down, but certain
frequencies dominate.

Nested rotations and the harmonics.  


Tests of the theory
===================

Cosmic Microwave background model.

Binary black hole merger v pan-galactic tidal waves.

Natural relationship between magnitude of gravity and magnitude of
inertial effects due to rotation: if we know the size of the effect
for a particular angular velocity, we simply scale by the ratio of
angular velocities to find the magnitude of that effect.

Relation between Hubble constant, CMB temperature, mass in the
universe.

.. image:: warwick.png



