================
 Colin P Rourke
================

Colin P. Rourke, a brilliant mathematician with a deep understanding
of the Poincar√© conjecture, now solved.

In 2000 started an interest in cosmology.  His **New paradigm for the
universe**, a stunning work that suggests an ancient universe, no big
bang, and no need for dark matter.

It is a beautiful theory, more economical in its assumptions than the
current big bang and dark matter cosmology.

The *U* in BLUME stands for `universal`.

The goal is to act as a guide to the mathematics of the *new
paradigm*.  

The `blume.cpr` module is where it starts to come into life.

First, to reproduce the plots in *A new paradigm for the universe*.

Explore geodesics in *de Sitter Space*.

Binary systems and the *new paradigm*, when *M* is large and *r* is small?

How do they make waves, rather than preserve their angular momentum by
a suitable change in rotation?

Where do the harmonics arise in the CMB?  Is it just the *local
galaxies* that modulate the signal?

There is good data on local galaxies, so a first step here will be to
visualise these galaxies and see if we explore what seems to drive it
all.

There are a lot of parameters for each galaxy, which should allow a
reasonable model for the size of the black hole driving the galaxy.

If we can get reasonable estimates then we should start to see the
forces driving inter-galactic dust and be able to compare to harmonics
in the CMB.

It would also be of interest to see how the new paradigm changes
planetary formation theory and movements of dust through a solar
system and beyond.

The `cpr` module is a first stab at implementing the physics of
his book, *A new paradigm for the universe*, in `python`.

All errors, and there are likely may be many, are on me for now.


2021 update
===========

There is tension in the value of the HLSW constant.

The estimate from the CMB, assuming the Big Bang, gives a lower value
than the estimate of observations of cepheid variables.

With the new paradigm, the CMB is in fact predominately made up of
radiation from galaxies in the incoming flow.

Step back a moment.  The CMB says, the univers is about 2.73K,
saturated with microwaves from the outer galaxies.

A microwave that hits a particle of ice in the cosmos, emerges without
losing energy, on average.  It can potentially travel a great
distance, though likely with some divergence.

What the observations are saying is that the light from these distant
galaxies is not as red shifted as we would have expected it to be.

