=============================
 What is the plan from here?
=============================

First of all, what is going on here? 

It started as a place to draw tables with `matplotlib`.  Or rather a
home for a new version of the `matplotlib.table` module that I created
way back in the day.

I decided it would be a good place to accumulate some examples of
tables in use.   Examples of ideas that take my interest.

I try to look for common themes across the examples and let that guide
the code. 

As things have progressed it has become clear that everybody already
has a table: pandas, astropy, mathematica.

I am leaning towards tables as lists of dictionaries as the lowest
common denominator.

But these tables are compelling, they come with matplotlib plotting too.

So it would be good to accommodate anybody that is going that route too.

What works for me is a script running in a loop as I change the script
parameters and see how it changes the plots.

That is just what I have created for now.  Just run::

  python -m blume.mb -r

This one generates images of the Mandelbrot set.  It is a good one to
experiment with the interactive mode.

Run things from a console.  Type 'h' and you will see what keys do
what.  At this point it is a bit of an adventure game.  All going well
'q' should quit.  Failing that, 'Control-c' is your friend.

Pressing 'i' shows the attributes of the object that is currently
selected.  Spacebar lets you scroll through its attributes and then
press 'h' to see the keys that will change the value.

You can do much of what I am trying to do with a *Jupyter notebook*
and some *ipython widgets*.

I have also taken it as an opportunity to explore asynchronous
programming in python.   I am using `curio` to help with this part of
the problem, in particular, the objects form the `curio.queue` module.



Cosmology
=========

A number of modules relate to astronomical data.

  * `blume.gaia` downloads and displays data from the Gaia survey of
    our galaxy.

  * `blume.cpr` implements galactic rotation curves per [AP].  This
    module is a natural companion for Gaia data.

  * `blume.gw` plots waveforms for the waves generated by different
    mergers of black holes and neutron stars of specified sizes.

  * `blume.dss` visualise geodesics in de Sitter space, again per [AP].


At some point it will be productive to combine the ideas in the `cpr`
module with the data in the `gaia` module.  It would be good to try to
get good estimates of both the mass and the angular velocity of the
black hole at the centre of our galaxy.

For now, I think it is worth waiting for more data releases.

There are already a number of excellent projects processing this
data.  Many of these use some sort of Bayesian re-estimation to fit
models.

I suspect some of these will be using the assumption that Sagittarius
A* is at the centre of our galaxy and is just 26,000 light years away.

The de Sitter module is just a stub at this point.  It has lead to the
discovery of the `einsteinpy` project.

That was where, I learnt that there is a *Gödel metric*, a solution to
Einstein's general relativty equations.

The fascinating thing is that his solution implied that the universe
should, in some sense be rotating.  He would often ask if observations
had yet confirmed this, only to be told, not yet.

I have been fascinated by Kurt Gödel since I learned of his wonderful
incompleteness theorems, all mathematicians have cause to be greatful
for these theores.

I am curious what Gödel would have made of the Cosmic Microwave
Background.

Which reminds me, there is this delight to explore::

  Legacy Archive for Microwave Background Data Analysis

  https://lambda.gsfc.nasa.gov/

And the accelerating expansion of the universe.

Could this not be explained, in de Sitter space, by the probability
that a distant galaxy is a new arrival increases as you get further
away?   

Some distant galaxies may be exibiting less red shift than would be
expected given their distance.

Dwarf, blue galaxies, if you like.

It should be possible to calculate what we would expect to see based
on [AP]


[0] http://msp.warwick.ac.uk/~cpr/paradigm
