=============
 Binary Star
=============

`blume.twins` is an attempt to simulate binary stars as they orbit
around each other.

In the physics of NP, we have to take account the inertial drag due to
the rotations of the two stars, on each other and the surrounding
space.

My suspicion is that, once this is taken into account, it is very much
more likely that one of the stars explodes as a supernova, before they
spiral into each other.

Such an event would be a natural way for a planetary system to form,
out of the debris of the explosion, with the nova's twin as the new
sun.

If this suspicion is true, then what is causing the gravitational
waves that the LIGO and Virgo detectors are discovering?

NP may also have an answer to that riddle, that gravitational waves
are, like gamma-ray-bursts, a curious artefact of space-time, marking
the arrival of a new galaxy in our visible universe.

The good news is we may not have long to wait.  The current
observation run is drawing to a close, with some 50 waves having been
detected.

More instruments are coming on line, with sensitivity set to increase
too. 

**Weak Sciama principle:**::

  A mass *m* at distance *r* from *P* rotating with angular velocity *w*
  contributes a rotation of *kmw/r* to the inertial field at *P*, 
  where k is a constant.

Imagine an orange, the inside hollowed out and filled with peas.

Imagine the peas are a little spaced out and all spinning at the same
speed around axes which are (locally) parallel.

Imagine also that the whole orange is spinning with some angular
velocity, very much less than that of the peas.

A hypothesis of NP is that linear motions have no inertial effect, it
is just rotations we need to concern ourselves with.

Further, two rotations with the same angular velocity, differ only by
a constant velocity.

Imagine the skin of an orange, and fill the insides with roughly equal
sized, small round peas.

Imagine the peas are covered in some frictionless lubricator and are
all spinning at the same angular velocity, at least locally.

Now set the whole orange spinning, about some other axis and consider
the inertial effects of the combination on the surrounding universe.

Now imagine the orange is a planet or star and the peas are the atoms
of the body, that locally beat to the rhythm of space time.  A smooth
varying twisting combination of distant inertial effects.

The inertial effect of the atomic rotations is the same as if they are
all at the centre of the planet.  This effect corresponds to gravity
as defined by Einstein's general theory of relativity.

Einstein's theory of gravity, captures the primary rotation, that of
the atoms as they follow the background inertial field together.

It ignores the second part, the inertial drag caused by the rotation
of the body itself.

This is generally an extremely good approximation to any observations
we have been able to make up until fairly recently.


Gravitomagnetism
================


If you pass a conductor through a moving magnetic field it induces a
current in the conductor.

This is the principle behind dynamos and electric motors.

Gravitomagnetism is a theory of gravity, a generalisation of Maxwell's
equations.

If I am understanding correctly, electro-magnetism is just a special
case.

Hulse-Taylor
============

This is a binary system that has been studied closely for a number of
years and appears to be showing orbital decay and is an excellent fit
to what is predicted according to general relativity.

It should be noted that the full NP model is also an excellent fit to
general relativity.

The additional effects due to rotation are generally insignificant,
except when they are not.

[NP] A new paradigm for the universe, Colin Rourke
