===========================
 Universal, the U in blume
===========================

Giant black holes to galactic dust and the tides of the cosmos.

Gamma ray bursts, new arrivals in our visible universe.

Gravitational waves too perhaps?

Black hole mergers, modelled with a new paradigm.


Einstein with a twist
=====================

Many years ago, early 1980's I was fortunate enough to study
mathematics at Warwick University.

Christopher Zeeman had put together a wonderful department, including
Colin Rourke.

He gave lectures on *Real Analysis*, occasionally in wellington boots
having come from the farm.

Real analysis?  Calculus, but done differently.  With nested sets,
that Colin had introduced through his work at the *Open University*.

I will confess, I was more interested in algebra, group theory, Galois
and Fermat.

Colin's main interests were in the land of *topology*.

I left Warwick, years passed.   Then I heard someone had a proof of
the *Poincare Conjecture*.  It was Colin, but alas there was an error.
 
A few years passed another proof and this time Colin found the hole.

In 2006 Gregori Perelman, finally completed the proof.

By this time Colin had an increasing interest in cosmology, a natural
interest for a topologist.
 
This led to him publishing *A new paradigm for the universe* in 2017.

The book also focusses on galactic rotation curves, how the velocity
of stars varies with distance from the centre of their galaxy.

Typical curves show a straight line through the origin, which
transitions to a flat asymptote with a constant velocity of around
300km/s.

Unfortunately, such curves cannot be produce by conventional physics.
Vera Rubin [2] uncovered this problem and introduced the idea of *dark
matter* as a potential solution.

Colin takes a different approach.  He modifies Einstein's General
Relativity by assuming that a rotating body drags inertial frames in
the direction of rotation, with the effect proportional to the mass
and angular velocity and dropping off linearly with distance.

There are a number of compelling reasons to support this assumption:

* galactic rotation curves now match the observations

* it provides a mechanism for distant matter to define inertial frames

* it provides a mechanism that slowly redshifts light as it passes
  across the cosmos.


Returning to topology, the book uses *de Sitter space* as a model for
the universe::

  In essence, what is provided here is a totally new paradigm for the
  universe.  In this paradigm, there is no big bang, and the universe
  is many orders of magnitude older than current estimates for its
  age.  Indeed there is no natural limit for its age.  The new model
  for the underlying space-time of the universe is based on a
  relativistic analogue of the sphere, known as *de Sitter space*.
  
  This is a highly symmetrical space which makes the model fully
  Copernican in both space and time.  By contrast the current standard
  model of mainstream cosmology is Copernican only in space and not in
  time.  This means that the view of the universe expounded here is
  similar to the steady state theory proposed and defended by Fred
  Hoyle (and others) in the last century, but it is not the same as
  their theory, which proposed an unnatural continuous creation
  hypothesis; like the big bang, this hypothesis breaks commonly
  accepted conservation laws.


Tired light
===========

Rotating masses drag light, causing red shift.  The further light
travels through space, the more it is red-shifted, hence light from
more distant galaxies appears more red-shifted giving the illusion
that galaxies are receding faster and faster the more distance they
are.

In [1] Edward Wright argues that simply stretching light from distant
galaxies would not give the thermal energy distribution that we
observe for the cosmic microwave background (CMB), so dismisses this
theory.


Cosmic microwave background
===========================

As noted the energy distribution of the cosmic microwave is very close
to thermal with a temperature of ~2.73K. 

According to the new paradigm (NP) the CMB originates in the form of light
from very distant galaxies.

Over 95% of that energy coming from galaxies that have never yet been
in our visible universe, beyond the Hubble distance.

So how does this light, in the form of microwaves make its way to us?
Surely, light from beyond the Hubble distance can never reach us since
it will be infinitely red shifted by the intervening space.

This is precisely what is required for thermalisation.

Cosmic dust.  Intergalactic space dust.   All at a temperature of
2.73K.

Once light from distant galaxies has been redshifted by z = 1000 it
enters the microwave range.

Now there are so many distant galaxies contributing to the energy at a
point in space that it is able to maintain a temperature of 2.73K.

Sooner or later a photon will encounter some dust and be absorbed and
then readmitted.

This is the perfect scenario for producing thermal radiation.

So whilst there is a tendency for light to be red shifted as it
travels across the cosmos, once it reaches the microwave level, then
we reach a point of thermal equilibrium.

Harmonics
=========

Spherical harmonic analysis of the cosmic microwave data reveals
intriguing harmonics within the data, with wavelengths of the order of
500 million light years.

Since interstellar cosmic dust is a key part of the thermalisation
process it is reasonable to assume that what the harmonics reflect
harmonics in the movements of cosmic dust.

Galaxies driving tides in the inter stellar dust.


New Arrivals
============

Gamma Ray Bursts.   New galaxies arriving in our visible universe.

Gravitational Waves.   New galaxies arriving in our inertial field.

Black Hole Mergers
==================

With and without the Einstein twist.

Bayestar.fits and healpix.

Sky localisation of gravitational wave events.

When a potenttial signal is detected it is compared to a catalogue of
waveforms for black hole mergers.

Once a good match has been located it is possible to calculate the
distance of the source based on how the amplitude of the wave we
receive compared to what it must have been at source.

Detectors also report the time and phase of the wave.

With three detectors this can narrow the source to an arc across the sky
of a few hundred degrees for the 90% confidence region.

In general, tends to be very elongated across the sky.

It does however provide a guide of which regions to turn telescopes to
in order to detect any radiation beyond the gravitational wave.

It should be noted that the distance part of this calculation is
dependent on the model that is used for binary star mergers is a good
enough approximation to reality.

One of the aims of this project is to try to explore the mathematics
of binary systems using the mathematics of the new paradigm.

https://gracedb.ligo.org


Sky localisation
================

These work with phase, time and amplitude from the detectors which
detected the signal.

The amplitude is based on templates for various size black hole
collisions and assumes that Einstein's General Relativity is a good
enough approximation.

One goal here is to see how different gravitational waves from a black
hole merger would be under the new paradigm.

If there are significant differences then this should help resolve
this issue.

If EGR is correct then we should over time find that the localisations
making sense, successfully locate host galaxies for an event and
improve the chances of observing coincident radiation.



[1] Can the CMBR be redshifted starlight? NO!
http://www.astro.ucla.edu/~wright/stars_vs_cmb.html

[2] Vera Rubin, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vera_Rubin

